Very excited to have Dr. Thomas Freed
here. Sir, you are the author of a very
well- readad book for my audience
anyway. They probably know more about
you even than I do. And you came as a
guest idea from uh one of my
subscribers. So, thank you for everybody
who puts in ideas for guests. I'm very
excited to have this conversation. Uh
Dr. Seaf Freed's the author of Cancer as
a Metabolic Disease. And you may be
sitting here thinking, Allison covers
censorship. Why is she talking to Dr.
Seaf? Well, I often don't hear about
cancer as a metabolic disease. And you
say that it it also doesn't necessarily
get maybe the the uh um spread that
perhaps it it should to help people
understand cancer. I guess before you
even get into your into your work
itself, why do you think that is? Any
ideas? Um, you mean why people have
nothing?
>> Why do you think it's still so so
unknown compared to, you know, what
people would normally hear of like
cancer is you got to go get radiation or
chemo or understanding. Um, I actually
actually think most of us know very
little about cancer. Uh, we just know
it's a bad thing.
>> Yeah. Well, I think the oncology
community is in the same boat. Um, they
don't really know much about it either,
despite despite all despite all the
things they say. Um yeah uh if you go on
to the National Cancer Institute um
website uh which is part of the National
Institute of Health and they they they
talk a lot about new developments and
whatever else they're doing but um when
you go to the page what is cancer it
says clearly cancer is a genetic
disease. It does not say it is a
metabolic disease. Um the the the the
view of cancer arising as a as a genetic
disease emerged mostly in the 1950s when
DNA was discovered as the hereditary
material and broken chromosomes and
genetic mutations were found in cancer.
And at that time the field ran off um
like lemmings over the cliff and still
are jumping off the cliff on this whole
thing that cancer is a genetic disease.
So you had the multi-billion can dollar
cancer genome project uh that was
sponsored by the national cancer
institute national institutes of health.
Um a vast majority of the research
grants given out by the national health
institute of health and NCI are all
based on some gene mutation. Uh and and
you and you hear on the on the TV at
night uh on major uh media stations uh
all of these different precision
medicines targeting mutations and eGFR
receptors and this this all speaks to
the dogmatic view that cancer is a
genetic disease.
>> Can I stop you real fast? Um because I
have a question about this specifically.
So I remember I don't know a decade
answer cancer and she did the genetic
testing and came back I guess with this
BA gene and and so based on that not
necessarily on the diagnosis itself she
decided to have a double massctomy. So
it's interesting to me from what you're
saying how how these how the the
treatment or the is looked at if it's
like if I have the gene then I should
you know ergo do this. What do you think
about that as a consequence of what
you're talking about?
>> Yeah. Well um that m that kind of
response makes people believe that the
gene is a fatal comple to get the
disease.
>> Right. um the BA one mutations whether
it's the BA 1 or BA 2 or the combination
of the two produce a risk of about 50
55%
meaning that 50% or 45% of women with
the gene never never will develop um
cancer um and what we have what I have
shown in my extensive uh evaluation is
the BA gene is a risk factor it causes
cancer only if it damages the energy
producing organel within cell which is
the mitochondrian.
So uh a woman could get breast cancer
from having a brackene risk factor that
would damage mitochondria. Another woman
could get breast cancer uh which would
look the same from an an accluded milk
duct that would cause a chronic
inflammatory site uh leading to
intermittent hypoxia. Another woman
could get cancer from a chemical
carcinogen risk factor. Another from
radiation risk factor. All of these risk
factors have one thing in common. They
all target and disrupt the energy
metabolism in a particular cell of the
breast leading to disregulated cell
growth. So all of these all of these
issues are basically related uh uh to
damage to the oxidative phosphorilation
which means energy through oxygen. When
I say oxidative phosphorilation, that
means our cells getting energy because
they take in oxygen. We breathe en we
breathe oxygen. Oxygen is allowing our
cells to generate energy. Cancer cells
are different from other cells in the
body in that they get energy without
oxygen. They do not use oxygen in any
significant amount for energy. So cancer
cells live and grow without oxygen. And
this is a very important distinction. So
you'd say, well, how do they get how is
it possible to get energy without
oxygen? And they use an ancient pathway
of fermentation. This is a ancient
pathway called energy without oxygen.
And um they have only a few fuels that
they can use to do this. And we have
identifi we and others have identified
glucose sugar and the glutamine amino
acid as the two prime fermentable fuels
for driving for driving cancer. So the
BA one um if you were to be diagnosed
with a BA 1, yes, you can go out and do
these uh what we call massive surgical
mutilations. Um or you could uh know
that that BA 1 will not cause cancer if
you can keep the mitochondria in your
cell healthy and energized. And this is
where uh you can use uh diet and
exercise prevention to significantly
reduce uh the probability of bracka one
becoming uh a risk factor. So you can
significantly reduce well you can do two
thing and the other thing too is if you
do surgical mutilation
um there's no guarantee that uh at some
point in the in the future uh you could
generate another type of a cancer from
the same uh from the same risk factor
hitting another another organ. Maybe not
as common as breast and ovaries and
things like this, but certainly if you
live long enough and you never really
addressed the the suppressive effect of
diet and exercise, you know, you may you
may um also experience another type of
cancer from that. It's not it's not not
a lot has been written on that, but it's
certainly a possibility.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/ keto for cancer,
the new community by our research
analyst Johnny Rockermeer. Within this
new community platform, you can connect
with other patients and learn from their
experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Cipher, we will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols.
So, take a look around at school.com/
keto for cancer.
Yeah, you make a really good point about
how it seems like what you're saying is
that the gene the gene theory gives
people a false sense of I guess safety
or security or just
a a sort of blissful ignorance I guess
about other stuff where like okay I have
this gene I just get my ovaries removed
or I get my uterus removed and then I
have no problems. Uh Dr. Dr. Seaf Freed,
before we go any further into your work
and nutrition and everything, when I'll
probably feel really guilty about
talking about wine, I'm just going to
let everybody know. I don't know, maybe
wine's not going to be so bad. We'll
find out.
Um, but don't forget everybody, you can
support my work at Allison
Winepromo.com. 50% off my favorite
wines, 50% off shipping. These are all
high altitude wines from Argentina, very
remote regions. Um, the one in the
middle comes from almost 9,000 ft. the
ones on the left and the right almost
6,000 feet natural fermentation, no
filtration, no additives. It's a it's a
great way to support my work. They're
they're u really tasty wines. You can't
get them at the grocery store. Why would
you want to? And um gives you a chance
to give a gift or get it for yourself.
Uh and have a great glass of wine while
also um supporting bringing interviews
like Dr. Steve Freed on. So allison
winepromo.com and uh thanks to Boner
Wine for supporting my work. Okay, let's
get back to Dr. Steve Freed. Um
>> well, wait, wait, wait. Let me
>> Yeah, go ahead. You want me? Yeah. Talk
about wine, please.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, let me say something
about the wine.
>> Okay.
>> You know, um we did some studies here in
the lab. Um ask because blood sugar is a
linked to cancer. The higher your blood
sugar, uh if you have cancer, if you
have cancer, the the the faster the
tumor will grow. We we published that
many many times. So, I had some students
dark red wine. I I I don't know about
the the bottles that you just showed
there, but dark red wines do not elevate
blood sugar
>> uh as as much as sweeter wines.
>> Oh, okay.
>> We've we've tested we've actually tested
that. So, if if you have cancer, a sip
of red wine is not is not going to
provoke your cancer.
>> Oh, okay. Well, phew. I was earlier. No,
no, I wouldn't I wouldn't have
badmouththed anything anyway, but the
fact that I the fact that I that I
actually tested dark red wine on my
>> and
>> well, one of the reasons that I have
well actually the reason that this wine
club sponsors me is because I was on
another podcast where they asked me what
Robert Barnes is a constitutional
attorney and he asked me what my
favorite drink is and I said I like high
altitude mbees from Argentina which is
very specific Pacific and the reason is
because a doctor friend of mine in the
Seattle area back when I used to live
there he used to talk about these wines
from this region because they come from
such high altitudes and they're so
remote that there's very little
pesticide use
>> and you know there's debate I guess
about what do you call it like
retroverol or what whatever the
phyitochemicals are but the idea is that
the grapes work a lot harder to survive
so you get a you get a better taste it's
a it's a more robust taste um and you
you're likely to get far fewer chemicals
in it Um, and then also this company
they do like the one in the middle is
from the oldest vineyard in Argentina
and a lot of them use like very old
traditional ways of producing the wine.
So it's it's just lower um input I guess
if you will. Um anyway, so that's my
>> That's right. I I'm not a I think the
red wines now. I can't speak some dry
white wines are okay too, but um
>> they can give me headaches.
>> Yeah, sweet wines.
>> I like a Sovenon Blanc every once in a
while.
>> Yeah. Well, I I'm talking about what we
do is we me we measure the what we we
published the glucose ketone index
calculator to allow cancer patients to
know whether or not they're in the zone
of what we call nutritional ketosis.
um uh when your body is in therapeutic
or nutritional ketosis, blood sugars are
lower and blood ketone bodies are higher
and that puts tremendous metabolic
stress and pressure on the tumor cells,
thus killing them. So when we had uh
students fasting for several days having
a very excellent glucose ketone index
just to see if they could get into the
so-called therapeutic zone, which we
published as 2.0 zero or below uh and
drank red uh dark red wine. Uh we would
we would monitor carefully uh how
elevated the blood sugar would go and it
would just went up very very slightly.
And then we did the other experiment
where we have them do the same fasting
and then gave them Coca-Cola.
>> Oh yikes.
>> Oh my god. You can't believe how bad
that stuff is, man. It is just deadly.
>> Oh, I believe it. If you want your tumor
to grow fast, if you're a cancer patient
and you feel that your tumor is not
growing as fast as your buddy's tumor
and you go out and you chug down
Coca-Cola and you'll get that tumor to
grow as fast as you ter I mean I and if
you go to the hospital sometime in the
cancer ward they give you Coca-Cola.
>> Yeah. Oh, don't even get me started on
that. Oh yeah to tell you remember if
you want your tumor to grow fast get
your blood sugar up as high as you
possibly can. And if you want your tumor
to grow slow get your blood sugar down
as low as you can. Not comp not
complicated.
>> That's his main message. Okay. You know
I'm I'm making chocolate these days
which I want to sell but I'm I'm still
trying to perfect my recipe. And also
part of the problem is now I live in
Florida. I'm making it out of coconut
oil and honey. Uh, so it's just very
basic. I just did a sea salt one, which
I I think came out really well, except
for like I said, it'll melt when I ship
it. So, I don't know what I'm going to
do. Um, maybe I'll do drinking
chocolate, but but um yeah, my family is
totally trying to to find different
because we've got sweet tooth, but it's
like what what can we do? Um, and and
it's it's amazing though how addictive
sugar is. And I think they probably put
other stuff in it, too. But yeah, you
you just get so used to that taste that
um
>> you know, I'll tell you, you want to
know how addictive sugar is, um try not
eating for three to four days. Just
drink water. Um I'm telling you, and the
reason why it's so uncomfortable is
because of the sugar addiction. Um, you
don't, if you were to have a carnivore
diet and then do that, the the the step
to water only fasting would be far far
less painful and uncomfortable than if
you go cold turkey. Our brains in our
societies today, we are addicted to
sugar. Um, and if you don't believe me,
stop eating for three days and you're
going to see what I'm talking about.
It's just as hard like alcohol drugs,
caffeine, um, nicotine, you know, all
these kinds of things are addictive
compounds, but man, sugar is right up
there with them.
>> Okay, a couple things real fast before
we get to the other question. You still
have to talk about what your your book
is about, but blood type O can't eat
coconut oil. I'm an O negative. I eat
it. What do you mean you can't? That's
that's is that And then dairy is like
jet fuel for cancer cells, especially
for women. Is that
>> No, coconut oil is really part of the
ketogenic diet. I mean, uh, coconut oil
is metabolized to ketone bodies very
rapidly. So, I I I've never heard of
that blood.
>> Are you I don't know where that come
from. I don't know where. Show me the
paper. Show me the evidence.
>> Show us the evidence. Okay, let's
>> Before you listen, when I speak here and
tell you and other folks what's going
on, I'm not pulling this stuff out of a
hat. Um, I have scientific peer-reviewed
publications. If anybody wants to fact
check anything that I'm saying, just go
on the uh just put my name in and say
publications and you're and I have open
access publications and peerreview
journals and you can fact check
everything that I'm saying. So, I just
want to make people people some people
say, "Oh, where's the guy all this
evidence?" I I did the damn experiments
in my lab for crying out.
>> Yeah, he's from Boston. So,
>> you got to take him ser he's he'll get
worked up if you don't
>> Well, you got to be careful about that,
too.
>> Just kidding. Where can I purchase this
book? Um, why don't you talk real fast
about that? Uh, and why? Because
somebody asked about why it's so
expensive.
>> John, why don't you ask John Wy Press
that? You know, that's I asked the same
question. Why are you making this thing
so expensive? You know,
>> you can get it on Amazon.
>> Yeah, you can. And, you know, with the
sales some sometimes they have a a sale.
I don't know. It go it goes from $150
down to $125. Some big sale. Um, no. I I
I apologize. I I can't even apolog I
don't even know what to say. That that
was John Wy. Um, if I write another one,
I'm not so sure I'll I'll I'll go with
that publisher. Um, and we're working on
a kind of a handbook right now. Uh, a
handbook. There's And the other book
that's out um a summary of what I said
was was written by Johnny Rockenmire. he
put he said it was written by me but he
just kind of summarized what I said um
in that book. So that's a lot cheaper. I
really haven't read it as carefully as I
probably should to see if it's as
accurate. But the but most of the
information comes unfortunately and the
other thing that I get I I get
criticized on is it's too heavy. Some of
the chapters are too deep into the
science. And don't forget that book was
written for the the scientists in the
field. There are a number of chapters on
uh that the lay person can certainly
understand but uh there are some
chapters that are written for if they
want to see what the real science of
cancer is then this they can they can
feel free to read those chapters.
>> Okay. Uh and one of the questions about
the price of the book was here on locals
alison.locals.com where you can pay five
bucks a month to put questions in ahead
of time for interviews. It's another
great way to support my work and a you
get a high value product out of it. you
get to go one-on-one with some of the
most censored people on the internet and
ask them whichever you want for
yourself. Um, okay. So, one of the
questions
I think that's not a question. We got so
many. So, I'm gonna Let's see where was
this. Um,
okay. Have you read Dr. Peter J. Adamo's
book, Eat Right for Your Blood Type:
Diet Solution? But before you answer the
question, before you answer the
question, Dr. for seafood. I want to go
back in time to the the whole point of
your research. Could you give us could
you give us the primer on what does it
mean cancer as a metabolic disease?
>> It means that the main problem with
cancer cells is how they generate their
energy for growth. That's the key. You
have to realize without energy nothing
can grow. Um
cancer cells divide rapidly. uh they
grow out of control. Uh everybody knows
this what it is. The definition of
cancer is disregulated cell growth or or
cell growth out of control. So you have
to say well where's the energy coming?
How where's the energy coming for a cell
to grow? And the answer you have to say
is that I said they you could get energy
from oxygen or you can get energy you
can get energy without oxygen which is
called fermentation. Ancient pathway of
fermentation. Cancer cells can grow
rapidly without oxygen. So where are
they getting their energy? And they get
their energy from ancient pathways,
aerolumic pathways, uh evolutionarily
conserved aerolumic pathways. That's
where they're getting their energy. So
when when we say cancer is a metabolic
disease and not a genetic disease, we
mean that the disregulated growth is
coming from disturbed energy metabolism
and that the mutations that you see that
the field seems to be obsessed with are
all downstream epiphenomen. So if the
field is focusing on a downstream
effect, the probability of making major
breakthroughs in the advancement and
management of the disease will not
happen in any in fact they won't happen.
So, in fact, we're not going to make any
major advance in cancer until it becomes
recognized as a metabolic disease. Then
you're going to see huge changes real
quick. How how long it's going to take
for the field to to adjust to this is
uncertain.
So, just to just to mention that. So,
yeah. So, I I wanted to say that cancer
is a metabolic disease based on the type
of energy metabolism that the that the
tumor has. So um I think that if you go
to the National Cancer Institute website
it says cancer is a genetic disease. So
the the answer to your question is the
field itself is driven by the view that
and if you don't and if you don't
subscribe to that view then you don't
get your NIH grant. Um you know it's one
of these kinds of things.
>> You better make sure you're in lock step
with what the field thinks and the field
and the pharmaceutical industries are
both in lock step with each other. So if
ca if they're advertising on TV at night
that target the EGFR receptor mutation
in your lung cancer what the hell does
that mean? I mean I already know the
lung cancer the lung all the every
cancer bladder cancer colon cancer lung
cancer they're all fermenttors they're
all getting energy without oxygen.
>> So why are we focusing on downstream epi
phenomenon when you when you can just
pull the plug on their energy metabolism
and kill them that way. So uh but
>> do you do you think then okay I guess
what what creates the metabolic disease?
Is it just diet? Is it toxin exposure?
What what puts you at risk?
>> These are all called risk factors. And
and I I went through in my book I
clearly showed you all of the different
kinds of risk factors that you can have.
Everybody knows radiation. Radiation
damages energy metabolism. It is a risk
factor. Uh carcinogens constant exposure
to carcinogen. carcin why they call it a
carcin because it causes cancer. They've
found it in rat and mouse or something
or in humans. Uh they cause um cancer.
Cancer that's the the phenotype. Okay.
Intermittent hypoxia, chronic
inflammation. Um we can have rare
inherited mutations. These are all risk
factors. Uh aging, age by itself is a
risk factor for cancer. Uh ankcoenic
viruses, papilloma virus, hepatitis
C viruses. These viruses are called
encogenic viruses because they damage
oxidative phosphor energy metabolism
forcing the cell into a fermentation
behavior. So all of these things are
so-called risk factors, secondary risk
factors. The primary risk factor for
getting cancer is chronic damage to
oxidative phosphorilation energy from
oxygen with compensatory fermentation.
That's it in a nutshell. So how do you
manage cancer? You take away the
fermentable fuels and transition the
whole body to a non-fermentable fuel
like fatty acids or ketone bodies which
cannot be used by cancer cells for
energy.
>> Okay, let's go back to that question.
Uh, have you read Dr. Adamo's book, Eat
Right for Your Type Blood, your blood
type diet solution?
>> You know, I I don't read the diet books.
I don't know what to say. All I know is
is that in order to kill cancer cells,
you you have to lower glucose and
elevate ketones. I don't I don't care
what you eat. Um whatever that whatever
you do to lower your blood sugar and
elevate your ketones, people should go
out and buy the Keto Mojo glucose ketone
index monitor. If they think they're
eating a good diet and they want to
prevent or manage cancer, then they
would get their glucose ketone index
down real low. I don't care what you
eat. If you're a vegan, uh if you're a
carnivore, if you're pescatarian, uh
whatever you want to think you call
yourself, um all I know is that get to
eat whatever you eat, you're going to
eat. If you can't get your if you can't
get your GKI down to 2.0 or below,
change your diet. I don't, you know, and
then people say, "Oh, you know, I work
so hard to try to get my diet." I I
never got it down. I said, "Well, then
stop eating completely and see if it
goes down. Do water only fasting." And
then they'll say, "Oh, man. I I had to
stop eating for 10 days before I could
get my GKI down. Okay, great. Now that
you're down there, start eating things
you normally would. And if you eat
vegetables and it makes it go up, don't
eat the vegetables. Pe people or I eat
meat goes up. It doesn't make any
difference. Every diet, every diet is
brought down to a quantitative measure
of blood glucose and ketones. So I
people say about this diet or that, I
have no idea. People have to check it
themselves.
>> Okay. So then that kind of answers the
followup which is um I and some others
from actual experience found keto is the
exact opposite diet we needed for
health. Are you open to different people
eating uh or needing different diets and
many needing a more vegan not keto diet?
Are you familiar with late Dr. Nick
Gonzalez's personalized diet? So you're
basically saying yeah you're open to a
whatever works to get your
>> Yeah, it doesn't it doesn't mean
anything. Just get your just get your
diet. If you're killing can I don't you
know if you wanna if you want to join a
vegan club or a carnivore club and do
whatever you want to do um just because
you want to eat meat or you just want to
eat vegetables. You you have to you have
to realize as a as a species we evolved
as omnivores. Okay. Uh if it weren't for
meat and don't forget humans will kill
and eat anything that they could find in
the in the Paleolithic period. Uh so you
go back to your the way we evolved and
you'll find out that we can eat
anything. Um but but but uh you know
today in in today's world everybody
thinks oh carnivore is really healthy.
Oh vegan's really healthy. You know I
don't know what to say about all that
stuff. All I know is if you have cancer
you better get your damn GKI down otherw
otherwise otherwise you're going to be
in trouble.
>> Okay. And I'm assuming that you would
think people should get that down
regardless of whether they have cancer
because you the ideal situation would be
not to get cancer, right?
>> Yeah. Well that's another thing a lot of
people are are using it. um as a
preventative measure.
>> Yeah.
>> So um and that's right you it's very
very difficult to get cancer uh if your
mitochondria in the cells remain
healthy.
>> Cancer starts from damage to
mitochondria in a particular cell in a
particular organ.
>> Okay. If you keep your mitochondria
healthy,
>> it's very unlikely that you will get
cancer. Okay. And this is this is seen
from our Aboriginal ancestors, our
people who live by their natural diet
diets and ways. Cancer is extremely rare
in these in fact cancer was is extremely
should be extremely rare in our species.
The problem is is we're in an obesity
epidem. All the things in our
environment are provocative uh risk
factors for developing cancer. But you
can prevent those by keeping a low GKI
periodically. I don't I don't think
people can do it. I have a friend doc.
You want to interview somebody?
Interview Dominic Di Austin Augustino
from from Tampa. Uh you
>> Oh, that's where I I'm I'm near there.
>> Yeah, he's he's at the University of
South Florida.
Yeah, Dominic Di People know him.
>> He's a a bodybuilder and a scientist and
a he he works.
>> Yeah. Dominic Di Austinino. He's he's in
in nutritional ketosis all the time. You
you can ask what Dom eats.
>> Um and you'll get a big kick out of the
if you if push him on what he's eating.
>> Am I gonna be able to do my wine read
when he comes on? That's the only thing
I care about.
>> Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I think you can. Dom I
don't think Dom has any In fact, the
only thing he might drink is is a little
bit of red wine.
>> Okay. He won't touch beer or something.
>> That's You know, I'd say I'll talk to
anybody, but I only talk to I'll talk to
anybody who will let me promote my wine.
No, I'm just kidding. I would talk Yeah.
Even if somebody hated my wine, I still
>> Well, I haven't tasted your wine yet, so
I don't know.
>> Yeah, that's true. It may just taste
like crap. It could It won't It won't
necessarily give you cancer, but it is
terrible wine. No,
>> I don't know. I You're the one telling
us how good it is. I I
>> I think it's good, but but taste is
subjective. You know, taste is subject.
I can't help it if I have a more refined
palette than everybody else, you know?
It's clearly um Okay, so I should have
brought this up when we were doing it
the Coke. By the way, I did see people
there's YouTube videos about how you can
clean your toilet with Coke. So, I mean,
I knew that is bad. I've seen that. Uh,
I just saw a study Rick Flair 2 says
linking sugary drinks with liver cancer.
In the study of 90,000 women, it showed
that drinking just one soft drink a day
increased the risk of liver cancer by
73%. Could Dr. Seaf Freed please comment
on the study and the dangers of sugary
drinks in general, yes, including diet
soft drinks. Anything further you want
to add to that?
>> You know, I I don't know what to say um
about that. I mean there's a lot of risk
factors uh that that sugar doesn't cause
cancer uh but sugar can can lead to
systemic inflammation and what linked to
type 2 diabetes and obesity. Um obesity
now has replaced smoking as one of the
top risk factors for developing cancer.
And um you know, one of one of the
things you should realize is that if
people were really really concerned
about preventing cancer,
we would not have an obesity epidemic.
The fact that we have an obesity
epidemic means that most people don't
care about cancer risk factors. If they
did, there wouldn't be an obesity
epidemic and an epidemic of type two
diabetes. So, so do these folks not know
that obesity and type 2 diabetes are are
they don't know that these are risk
factors for cancer? I mean, the evidence
is like overwhelming. Um, so I'm telling
everybody now obesity
if you it's is it's just as bad as
smoking. But what do you think about I
mean I I know you don't want to talk
politics or anything so you don't have
to get into this with me if you don't
want but I hear constantly nowadays on
the news
>> about how it's like you know you're
shaming people if you bring this up like
there's there's all the there's a lot of
hesitance now in the world to call it
what it is to say it's obesity now you
know you could be looked at like you're
just being insensitive and mean like big
is beautiful and and and there's just a
lot of pressure it seems even the
scientific community there's pressure to
like just avoid that.
>> Well, I mean, but the but the I mean,
look at the American Cancer Society.
They're the ones telling
>> I don't trust them.
>> Well, yeah, but you know what they do?
It's a real good do you know what they
do really well? They log the dead.
>> They do they let me tell you that every
year they come out with how many people
are dying from the various kinds of
cancers. So, so, uh, we know that I I
look at them. I said it's great that
they would put this energy to let
everybody know what what what's what
type of cancers are killing us. And they
do a good pretty good job, not a great
job. And there's there's there's flaws
in everything you can that you that you
can have, but they seem to do a pretty
good job logging the dead. And, uh,
right now, uh, over 1,600 people a day
are dying from cancer in the United
States. And this is um uh breast cancer
in women has now replaced heart disease
as the number one killer of women.
>> So So you have to realize uh when you
raise money for the pink ribbon
campaign, the more money you raise for
the pink ribbon campaign, the more
breast cancer you're going to get. So uh
when you It's true. I mean, they've been
raising money. Pink rip putting pink
airplanes and pink everything is pink,
you know, cancer breast cancer awareness
month.
>> Um uh you get every every the more money
we raise for breast cancer, the more
breast cancer we get. Then then then you
say to yourself, um why is that? We've
been we've been pink rebbing. We've been
running, swimming, jumping, biking for
breast cancer for the last 30 years, and
now we have breast cancer overtaking,
you know, heart disease. So, one of the
things people have to realize, ask where
the hell is all the money? Why why is
there no accountability for all the
money I'm raising for for any kind of a
cancer? And and the question is you find
out that a lot of that money, oh, we're
going to raise money for re What kind of
research are you doing? The research
that that gives us more cancer. Is that
that? So, you find out that it's going
to gene therapy. You It's going to the
idea that cancer is a genetic disease
and it's not a genetic disease. So, you
might as well take that money and just
flush it. You use the use that and the
and the Coca-Cola to clean your toilet
bowls.
>> Yeah, there you go. Yeah. Well, co Coke
is probably cheaper than your average
toilet bowl cleaner. So, if you want to
save some money, that might be that
might be an option for you. Um, all
right.
>> Okay, everybody, before we go any
further, uh, you wear glasses. I don't
think glasses raise your ketone levels,
but if you do wear glasses and any kind
of you like progressives, you want an
amazing pair of progressive lenses, blue
light blocking glasses, whatever problem
you got with your eyes, I'm telling you,
betterspects.com/biig.
That's where you could go. Or call
313801-2272.
Um, where am I? I don't see my my other
blue light blocking glasses that they
made me are not here right now. But
trust me, they're awesome. These are
also blue light blocking, but they
didn't make them. I like the other ones
better. I wear these because they're now
my show glasses. People revolt when I
don't wear them. I'm sorry. You just
have to deal with it. So, just trust me.
If you want to support my work and
you're looking for some amazing glasses,
go here. Now, they do offer biometric
intelligent glasses based on artificial
intelligence scans if you want to have
your eyes scanned. If you're freaked out
that they're going to send the
information to the FBI, that's totally
fine, too. You can go get a pair of
glasses that they have developed for you
basically custom based on 500,000 other
people's eye scans and 7,000 data
points. Um, the prescription is across
the total lens. It's not just like in
the center like a lot of glasses. And
they uh stand by the blue light part. A
lot of blue light glasses. They promise
it's blue light blocking. They're not
really doing what they say. Anyway, new
sponsor. Go check them out.
betterspectacles.combig.
If you request an appointment, see that
little orange box. It it'll come up with
an email or the phone number. Or you can
just call 31381-2272.
Let them know that Alison Marorrow sent
you and um let me know what you think.
Okay. All right. Let's go back over to
some questions. Um, why
are people so hesitant or reluctant to
change their eating habits? MSLSM asks.
>> Uh, how do I know? I don't know. I mean,
change their eating habits.
>> Well, it could be the very the actual
chemical addiction you're talking about
with the sugar. I mean, that is
difficult to break.
>> Well, you know, it's not just the sugar.
It's the highly processed carbohydrate
foods.
>> Well, why do you think more people
aren't interested? I mean, maybe a
better question is there are so many
people who don't even care. They don't
even want to know.
>> Yeah.
>> That's even harder, I think, to
understand than the people who are like,
"Okay, I know and you know, I'm addicted
to sugar." But there are so many people
that are just totally not interested in
understanding all the all the different
things that uh are related to health
outside of like what you see at a you
know a minute long ad running in between
the news on the latest drug treatment
that has like 18,000 side effects but
you could do this this particular drug.
>> Yeah. I I I don't know. I mean it's it's
easy to buy food from all kinds of fast
food places. Um I I can't answer that. I
I I think it's just a personal thing. I
just think people have to know risk
factors and and and do the best they
can. Um and and uh but I I don't study
those kinds of things, you know.
>> You're not a psychologist.
>> Yeah. No, I I study how to kill cancer
cells without harming the body. Um h how
do we manage cancer? That's the key. And
and the science behind that. I I think
I'm more qualified to speak on that
subject than you know why somebody can't
stop eating some fast food thing to make
them feel good. I mean that's something
else.
>> Okay, I think I got to that other Okay,
this is my dad, Dr. Ship Abrahamson. He
is an orthopedic surgeon, but he's got
really into uh nutrition as of late.
Gabbor Mate in the documentary Zeitgeist
moving forward said very few diseases
are genetic. that childhood trauma and
the resulting maladaptive behaviors like
eating comfort foods leads to most
disease. Two questions. Do you also
believe it is not genes but genetic
expression that underlines most disease?
I think you've said yes. Would that be
right?
>> Yeah. Well, you know, it's again it's a
hard question to answer. Um
I it's it's predominantly
uh risk factors that subject our body to
damage to the respiration. And as I
said, I went through the various risk
factors. Um, a lot of the d incorrect
diets are imbalanced leading to systemic
inflammation. So again, you have to go
back to the biomarkers and the
biochemical changes. The shift from what
we call metabolic homeostasis.
This is where we're pretty pristine in
in in the blood work and the the overall
uh health biomarkers in our body. You
look at a lot of people uh who have
cancer. It's not just cancer. They have
many have are obese. They have type two
diabetes, high blood pressure,
hypertension. They they have a lot of
other comorbidities. Uh most of these
comorbidities uh are the result of diet
and lifestyle. So when you put diet and
lifestyle, it's probably the single
greatest risk factor for uh developing
cancer. uh the inherited risk factors uh
the highest inherited risk factor is the
leaf rameni p-53 mutation where about an
85%
um probability but again it's not 100% u
penetrance which means the probability
of of seeing the phenotype which would
be a cancer as the result of this
mutation that's about the highest one I
can I can find all the others are very
are much much lower than that but
they're all considered secondary risk
factor
is damage mitochondria.
>> I see. I see. Okay. So, you're not
throwing genetics out altogether. You're
just saying, look, like you said with
the BA, 50% aren't going to get it. So,
you can't just say it's just that like
if you have it, you're for sure going to
get it. So, it's a risk factor, but not
>> Yeah. It's a secondary. The primary risk
factor caused by BA one and all the
others is damage to oxidative phosphor,
damage to the mitochondria within the
cell. That's the primary cause of
cancer.
>> Okay. Okay, this is another question
you're probably not going to want to
answer because you're not a
psychologist, but are most cancers
caused by ignorance of the proper
dietary restrictions influenced by the
sugar industry or by emotional need for
comfort foods? I noticed many managers,
he works at a hospital where I work, buy
donuts in the morning to make the
workers feel better. Also, instead of
feed a fever and starve a cold, maybe it
should be feed a brain keto and starv
cancer. Lastly, what would I find in
your book that was not highlighted or
included in tripping over the truth by
Travis Kristofferson?
Yeah. Well, Travis wrote his book based
on my book. um uh he he he found it to
be uh profound that I would say and well
I provided the scientific evidence for
this and he he wanted to bringing bring
it more to uh to the lay lay people uh
lay public what this whole cancer thing
uh was and and um it it is a metabolic
disease and I think as soon as we
realize that then this the strategies
for managing cancer become very very
different than what we're doing today
not not not only preventing cancer
cancer, but also how do we manage it?
Listen, so I I I I I think you said
that, you know, radiation and chemo,
these are poisonous and radical
approaches. Um, people aren't when they
got diagnosed with cancer, they're not
looking forward uh to going down and
getting toxic poison put in their body
or being irdiated. Um, they're not
looking forward to this. They fear that
almost as much as they fear the disease.
And then you get all these new ones, the
PDL1 inhibitor, PD1, PDL1, CARTT
imunotherapy. These are the ones you
hear, you know, pushed. Um, these are
all based on the sematic genetic theory
of cancer, the sematic gene mutation
theory. So if the theory under which the
disease is viewed is not correct, what
is the probability that we're going to
see dramatic improvements in overall
outcome? And to be honest with you, um,
we do find some folks that are really
respond well to some of these new new
therapies, but we also find a a
significant number that are killed
faster uh, than the cancer would if they
didn't do anything to the tumor. Uh,
taking the drug would kill them faster
than doing nothing. So, it's called
hyper progressive disease. You want you
want to know about, you should look it
up. Um, when you hear these disease,
when you hear these therapies advertised
on television, where the where the
pharmaceutical companies are advertising
their stuff on TV, nobody's advertising
metabolic therapy on TV,
>> you know, get your glucose ketone index
down, folks, and let's see what that how
much is how much is that going to cost?
You save money on it. You don't have to
eat as much food. So, um, but you don't
see that advertised. uh and where are
the clinical trials showing that
metabolic therapy can be really really
good? Well, who's going to step forward
and do a metabolic trial showing showing
that um ketogenic metabolic therapy and
low lower GKI is going to have a very
powerful effect on managing your
disease. Um no one at least not up to
this point unless you have some uh I
don't know the federal government should
be the ones doing this but but I I I
don't know why they're not because they
think cancer is a genetic disease. So it
all comes back to these to these these
controversial positions. But the
evidence that cancer is a is a metabolic
disease is so strong. It's so profound.
Uh you wonder why the field can't um
understand that it has to be a dog
ideological dogma which is that you
cannot change your opinion because
you're part of a mindset. It's like a
religion. So you can't change your
religion. you I'm you believe cancer is
a genetic disease and you absolutely
doing that because you're getting well
paid to think that it's a disease but in
the out in the real in the real world
it's not a it's a a metabolic disease.
So you have a lot of issues preventing
the idea that we can manage this disease
uh with a lot less toxicity with a with
a a tremendously better outcome uh than
we are currently doing. Mhm. Well, I I
think that what you just described it it
is across the board in every industry,
no matter who I have on that. That's
what they say about why they get
ostracized or whatever and and nobody's
interested in hearing is the same
condition you just described. So, I
don't know if the human condition.
>> Yeah. And what I'm describing, we're
we're having one thou over 1,600 people
a day suffering and dying from this.
This is not insignificant.
>> No, it's not. But like, you know, for
instance, one time I went into the
dentist office and and just not on
purpose, but I I hadn't been to the
dentist in a few years cuz I had a kid
and or actually no, this was before I
had a kid. I was in TV news and
whatever. I moved to Seattle. I couldn't
find a dentist. I was overworked and and
anyway, but I I had a really good diet
and I was taking a lot um cod liver oil
uh slash butter oil blend. It was high
vitamin D and anyway, I I I
think I eat, you know, a very nutritious
diet and take care of my teeth,
whatever. I go in and um I didn't have
any cavities and they said my gums
looked amazing. And what I noticed was
that they did not want to know why I was
a because they were shocked that I
hadn't been in the dentist in three
years and they thought they were going
to find all these cavities and they
didn't find a single cavity and but
nobody wanted to know why. You know, my
my dad actually had a similar
experience. The reason he got into
nutrition was because he started reading
up on why he why would you need a root
canal? you know what what's what's what
would be the reason like and how do you
know when you should really get one
anyway he totally changed his diet and
um he ended up not even needing the root
canal the seven root canals or whatever
that his dentist said he need and his
dentist never even wanted to know what
he did so there's a lot of doctors I
they see these problems all the time but
if you'd think if you were interested in
like actually helping your patients that
you would want to know what the anomaly
is doing like at least you'd be curious
you may not totally change everything
you do but you would at least ask a
question about it what did you do you
know how How did you keep yourself for,
you know, I see all these people that
come in every six months and they all
have cavities. What's what's different
about you? But they don't even want to
know, which I think is weird.
>> And I it's not only weird, it's
profound. Um,
>> let me real fast, Dr. Steve, let me ask
you this. Okay, so Jay Butters is
saying, "How do we kill uh cancer cells
and then uh ask the good MD?" Well, he's
not an MD. You're a PhD, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. He is aware of the skin dose in
mammograms and if the prevention is
worse than the disease. Chip Abrahamson,
what about the everybody makes cancer
cells every day? So that's three to
throw at you right now.
>> Everybody makes cancer cells every day.
I don't know. I have no I have no
evidence to support that. I mean, how do
we know that? Does anybody, you know,
what are we doing? Running around taking
biopsies on everybody's tissue every day
to see if we have cancer? No, we don't
do that.
>> Um, you know what is funny though?
Recent studies over the last five years
have shown that if we do genetic
screening on normal tissues for whatever
reason like biopsies um you find large
numbers of of mutations and um
especially in what we call driver genes.
Now you have to realize those in the
field that think cancer is a genetic
disease often speak about driver
mutations. So you can have passenger
mutations and and other kinds of
mutations, but the ones that are
supposed to cause disregulated cell
growth are been classified as driver
mutations. Well, now we're finding uh
hundreds of different kinds of driver
mutations, normal tissues that never
become cancer. So again, what does that
mean? Um, if we have all of these
so-called powerful driver genes in cells
that never become cancer, and that goes
back to the question, oh, we're forming
cancer cells every day, are we really?
Who who knows that, you know, and
somebody, well, if I have a tumor, well,
yeah, you form that tumor for sure, but
are you telling me all these normal
people walking around are forming cancer
cells or somebody said that? I don't
know where the evidence is to support
that, but but we know we have driver
gene mutations in normal cells and it's
and they're they're in every one of our
normal tissues and and they're not
developing cancer. How do you explain
that?
>> And then and then we have cancers that
some cancers have no mutations. People
say, "Oh, cancer has a it caused by
mutations." Oh, yeah. Well, what about
those cancer cells that have been desri
described by a number of investigators?
Well, they can't find any mut. Well,
then they say, "Well, they haven't
looked hard enough. Give me a break."
They look with the fi with the most deep
technologies and they can't find some
mutations. And then we have these driver
gene mutations in normal cells that
never develop cancer. And then you say
to yourself, man, to think cancer is a
genetic disease, you have to be
cognitively impaired. So uh um and I
I'll say that to the National Cancer
Institute because uh when you when you
sit down and look at the data and you
think cancer is a genetic disease, you
are cognitively impaired.
You're making me miss living in Boston
where everybody's a real straight
shooter. Okay. Uh going back to a couple
questions in the live chat. Okay. What
about um yeah, are you aware of these
skin dose and mammograms and if the
prevention is worse than the disease?
And then there was the other question
about how do we kill cancer cells?
>> Um well, I don't know anything about the
skin thing. Um I haven't looked into
that. But I told you a cancer cell can't
grow without energy. Right? I said that
I I I I'll say it again. No cell can
grow without energy. Cancer cells get
energy from the ancient pathways of
fermentation. The glucose pathway
glycolysis and the glutamine pathway
glutaminolysis.
So these are fermentation. They can
generate ATP. Adenosine triphosphate is
the currency of energy in our cells. So
you can get energy from both glucose and
glutamine. uh they provide all of the
nutrients that cancer cells need to grow
and get energy. So, how do we kill
cancer cells? We take away their
fermentable fuels. How do we do that?
Well, glucose can be pushed down real
low with diet and exercise. Glutamine
requires drugs. So, there are drugs
available that can specifically target
the availability of glutamine. Our our
protocol for treatment of cancer is put
the patient into therapeutic ketosis
first. Cancer cells cannot burn fatty
acids or ketone bodies for energy
because they're mitochondria defective.
Once we put the patient in ketosis, then
we use drugs and procedures to further
down hammer down glucose and glutamine
and and that will eventually uh resolve
the disease uh hopefully or manage it.
It can either either we don't know if we
not all we know is we can effectively
manage it. And we published the press
pulse uh paper uh where we press glucose
and pulse glutamine. And it's a a
strategy uh that will be successful in
killing tumor cells without harming
normal cells of the body. You will not
lose hair. You will not bleed from your
gums. You will not have crippling
fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting. You
will not have any of these
characteristics as you slowly degrade
the tumor. How do we know this? Because
we know the tumor cells can't live
without fermentation. What's the fuel
for fermentation? Glucose and glutamine.
How do you know that? because I looked
at every damn tumor cell that we know of
and they're all defective in
mitochondrial function structure. So, we
know that they have to ferment. All
these different tumors are all dependent
on fermentation. Brain, breast, colon,
they're all very very similar. Can't
live without fermentation. Targeting
fermentation is so much easier and and
and less toxic than anything that we're
doing out there presently. So, how long
is it going to take for people to know
what I just said? How long is it going
to take for the oncologist to read the
papers that actually provide the
evidence for what I just said? I don't
know. As I said, when you can't when you
go when the patient goes to the
oncologist, ask them, "Do they know
cancer is a genetic disease that lives
on fermentation?" And see how many
oncologists say, "Well, I never heard of
that." Uh that they'll tell you right
off the bat whether they know anything
or not.
>> Oh, well, I've had so many experiences
bringing in um scientific papers to
doctors who say to me, "I don't have
time to read that." So that's that's
always encouraging.
>> It's sad. It's very sad. It's very it's
tragic.
>> It Yeah. They expect like the patient
has to be the doctor too. I mean it's
it's nuts. But
>> well yeah one more thing when you do
metabolic therapy now a lot of the a lot
of the responsibility in health falls on
the shoulders of the patient. They have
to be when I when I speak about
metabolic therapy the patient has to be
a prime motivator for this for them to
do this. They just don't sit in a chair
and get infused with poison. Right.
Right. You know, you you you have to be
uh you have to understand you're
measuring your GKI. You're you're
actually in in constant conversation
with your health health care provider to
keep you on on the right track.
>> How do you find a health care provider
then? Do do you know of people because
there was a question that came in like
so how do I find a doctor? How how do
maybe how do I test my doctor on this if
I want to find somebody that um that's
that's of your mindset? Well, that's the
biggest problem right now because these
poor physicians are not trained in
medical school. They're not they're not
trained to do understand metabolic
therapy. Um they're just given a routine
training procedure um for whatever they
do um you know for chemo and radiation.
They're trained to use this without
killing the patient um you know and a
variety of other things. But the fact
that they're using these terrible toxic
poisons um tells me that they're not
trained in the right way. This is not
the right way to treat another human
being, you know, with their hair fall.
What are you looking at? Poor guy has
goes bald because he's trying to Well,
you're trying to kill cancer cells, not
you not hair follicles, you know, um
what's oh have adverse effects. Now,
there are a lot of people on the planet
uh who are what we call cancer
survivors. There's no question about the
treatments that they have received in
successfully managing their cancer. But
many of these folks pay an enormous uh
price uh for this. Uh they have all
kinds of adverse effects that persist in
their life. Uh neuroendocrine
imbalances, digestive imbalance,
hormonal imbalance, neurossychiatric
problems, um effects of surgical
surgical mutilations. I mean, you don't
come out of this often. out uh as good
as you were when you when you started
with the treatment. Metabolic therapy is
designed to degrade the tumor slowly
while enhancing the health and vitality
of the body. So, not only do you get rid
of your tumor cells, but you off often
get rid of type two diabetes,
hypertension, and a variety of these
other conditions that are putting you at
risk for all kinds of things.
>> So, again, people are just going to have
to become educated about this. You know,
we we have a condition of scientific
illiteracy in this country. And it's not
only among the population, it's among
the oncologists themselves. So we we
have people that don't know much and we
have the the hair care caregiver that
doesn't know much. You put those two
together and you got a problem. 1600
over 1,600 people a day dying from
cancer. So So it's be it's incumbent
upon people to start looking and saying,
you know, what's going on with this
whole thing? because they'll be they'll
come to realize that a lot of they can
do a lot of this and help themselves and
they just need a they just need a health
care provider that can assist them and
keep them on the right track. So we have
to retrain oncologist the oncology
community has to be completely
retrained. Now that doesn't mean we
don't use radiation and chemo. We can
use these approach these tools in lower
dosages and less uh less aggressive uh
approaches. they work together with the
metabolic therapy to achieve an outcome
with minimal toxicity and the and the
most likely outcome of of positivity.
So, so again, we have to relearn the
tool the what we know about certain
things and then and learn how to how to
how to manipulate these in the right
way.
>> Okay. Uh this is a very long one. I'm
not going to read in total. If you want
to read it, go over to
alisonar.locals.com.
Oh,
>> whoops.
>> I can't I can't see it. I mean, it's
just
>> Oh, you can't. Yeah, it's too long. Um,
but basically
>> too small as well. Maybe I need maybe I
need some of those special glasses.
>> Yeah, you need to go get my glasses yet.
It's just basically this person was um
overweight,
uh, had really bad sciatica. The
neurosurgeon said they're going to do
surgery, kind of freaked out, look for
other options besides surgery, changed
to keto diet, cut carbs and sugar. Six
weeks, canceled surgery, all pain was
gone. Okay, so there you go. That's the
gist. Uh, Andrea, with the dietary
guidelines being the basis of nutrition,
do you think school lunch programs or
military rations will ever be corrected
to account for the needed saturated fat
and proteins? Uh, especially concerned
with school lunch program. For children,
this can be the only meal they get today
to be full of just processed junk food
that does not provide enough nutrients.
How do we expect kids to learn, let
alone be healthy?
>> Well, it's a good question, but I think
they probably have to take that up with
their local school districts.
>> You know, it's um
Okay, let's I've heard that there isn't
one cancer type or process. Could he
comment
>> one? There's not there. There is one
that their fermentation is the common
common phenotype of all major cancers.
>> Uh any
studies on canine fasting and canine
cancer?
>> Yeah, I published a major paper on this
just recently. People should go look it
up. Um, how metabolic therapy was able
to completely resolve a mass cell tumor
in a in a
>> interesting?
>> Yeah.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. A open access, guys. Go out and
look at it. It's unbelievable. And I
have pictures of the dog's face.
>> Wow.
>> The woman just simply followed what we
said. And uh it cut the calories of the
dog. Uh uh all natural raw chicken meat
from the from the Whole Foods
>> with the bone with the bone in it. Uh
>> little fish oil. a raw egg and cut the
calories by 40%. The dog lost five
pounds and within within three or four
months the tumor was gone. Now the dog
the dog died of old age 15 years of age
from heart failure. Uh that's wow.
>> So the it was a pitbull lived to be 15
and a half years. The dog was the dog
was seven years old when it got the
cancer on his face.
>> And the doctor said, you know, same
thing, radiation and chemo. It was going
to cost like couple thousand dollars and
the dog would live maybe nine months.
>> Wow.
>> Now this So I published the paper.
People can go out and look at it. Um and
uh and a lot
>> Yeah, it's called um it's in open
access. It's in I think
>> I'll look it up. Yeah, it's uh ma a mass
cell tumor of a dog resolved from
metabolic something like that. I it's
pub just look mine up in K and
>> I published the paper.
>> Okay, I'm looking it up. I'll show
>> and people say well what look at the
diet that that woman now here's a woman
who knew nothing about cancer just
followed what we said and she she
developed a diet for her dog and she put
the dog on a vegan diet at first made
the tumor grow twice as fast. So clearly
dogs did not evolve to eat vegetables.
You got to realize that.
>> Yeah, this is it. I think right case
report resolution of malignant K9 mass
cell tumors and ketogenic
>> therapy. Yeah, people should know that
recipe in there. What she did uh has
been shown to work on a lot of dogs with
different cancers.
>> Oh, really? Okay.
>> Yeah. And I have everything in there
exactly what she did. The pictures are
in there. Go to the Is there a picture
there? You can see the dog's face in
there.
>> Oh, yeah. Right there.
>> Yeah. So, you see that? Look at that big
fever.
>> Oh, amazing.
>> Yeah. Metabolic therapy in the dog,
baby. It works
>> well. We um you know, one of my
learning lessons uh I wish I had learned
it earlier on is to just I we the
current dog we have, but I wish I had
done it with our our dog who died um a
few years ago was just total raw. I
mean, the dog we have now is she she
eats a totally raw diet. She has ever
since we we got her. Um,
>> I think the raw you have to be you have
to know uh the recipe that this woman
used. She was from Georgia.
>> Okay.
>> She she used a lot of very highly
nutritious
>> I'd like to make it ourselves.
>> Yeah, she did. So, um
>> it's cheaper that way.
>> Yeah. Well, I don't know. If you're
buying really good meat from the Whole
Foods and stuff like that, some of that
can be kind of expensive.
>> Whole Foods is a marketing scam. We We
buy from farmers.
>> Okay. Well, that's just as good. I mean,
or better, maybe.
>> It's better.
>> Okay. Well, I'm not going to Hey,
listen. I'm not going to, you know,
stand here and argue about which is
better. Well, if you're getting if
you're getting natural farm farm beef
raised, nothing could be better because
the dog evolved from a wolf, you know?
Yeah.
>> Uh what do wolves eat? You see them
eating chicken, they'll kill they'll
kill elk.
>> Uh they'll they'll eat they but they
don't eat vegetable. You never saw a
pack of wolves attack a cornfield.
>> So, um you know, they're not going to be
dogs don't eat vegetables. uh they eat
meat and they eat things like this, but
they they're not a big veget.
>> Well, the only reason I just tell people
about Whole Foods, because I used to go
to Whole Foods all the time. You spend a
lot of money, but you really have to
read labels because it, you know, you
just don't know. And if you buy direct
from, you know, a regenerative farmer
who's got chickens out on pasture,
eating worms and stuff. It's way better
than going to Whole Foods and buying
chicken that may have still been
cornfed, you know, in some factory farm.
So, that that's the only reason I bring
that up.
>> No, no, I agree. I I agree. But, you
know, in Boston, we don't have too many
of these free chickens running around.
>> You Oh, I bet you have tons of farmers
that go to markets, though.
>> Yeah. Well, I think you have to go more
in the western part of the state. I
don't see too many. There's a few farm
stands, you know, for small amounts of
things, but we don't we don't have the
>> You don't have a farmers market?
>> Uh, yeah. In North End, they bring that
they bring all the farm stuff in on the
weekend.
>> Yeah, like a weekend. Yeah, something
like that. Or you know what we do is you
just like well what we do is like we
find a farmer
>> and then you know you just buy direct
like you go go an hour or wherever you
have to go and you buy like six chickens
and then you just do it once a month or
four chickens four frozen chickens. You
just do it once a month or something
like that. Anyway, that's that's what we
do. Now we're going to start raising our
own chickens. But um
>> Oh,
>> okay. Uh what my white cell count was
40,000. Uh this is Rick height including
bad white cells when I was diagnosed
with chronic myoid leukemia in 2012 and
an oral chemo for eight years now in
cellular remission but it still can be
detected. I could diet below my skinny
high school weight and it wouldn't
change my cellular condition although I
don't discount it for some conditions
just apprehensive when I hear the diet
thing everything is relative. What do
you think about that?
>> Well I mean multiple myyoma is similar
to all the other major cancers. I mean
it's fermenting. Um, so I mean I you you
could you could and again I'm not a
physician. I can't tell anybody what to
do or what not to do. All I all I can
say is that you know a metabolic uh
approach with a low GKI continuing with
some certain drugs that have shown to be
therapeutic for that condition um might
might offer an even a better outcome.
Um, I mean, I've seen a lot of folks
that have multiple myyoma that have done
metabolic therapy uh in a kind of a
hybrid way with this traditional
medication. They have seem to be doing
pretty well. So, you know, it's an
individual thing, but but at least you
have different options that you can try.